## Step 4. Define tests

There are a few concepts to understand how tests are defined in pyATS. The files
that define tests are python scripts with the full power of the pyATS Framework
behind them.

* **Test Cases** contain one or more test steps that are performed. In our example we will be executing
two test cases.

  - PingTestcase - this test case logs into a given device, and attempts to ping a provided destination.
  - VerifyInterfaceCountTestcase - logs into a device and verifies the correct number of interfaces are present.

* **Test scripts** Are a collection of TestCases and additionally provide a wrapper where things like setting up the test environment, or resetting the environment after a test is complete.

* **Job File** The job file is responsible for providing the interface to how a test is invoked, things like taking command line arguments or variables that are to be applied to the test run. Job files are comprised of one or more test scripts.

* **Easypy** the runtime environment for test execution.

Understanding these concepts can help you realize the following benefits:

  * Promotes reusability of scripts, and sharing amongst the testing community.
  * Provides testing control, things like running the same test on all or subsets of devices
    within the topology.


## Review Sample code

Take a few minutes and review the following files.

* jobfile - `pyats_ios_example_job.py`

  aside from reading some command line arguments, this script is essentially importing our test script and
  executing it.

  ```python

  testscript = os.path.join(test_path, 'pyats_ios_example.py')

  # run it
  run(testscript, **vars(args))
  ```
* testscript - `pyats_ios_example.py`

  Note the use of decorators for test control and flow.

  ```python
  @aetest.loop(device = ('ios1', 'ios2'))
  class PingTestcase(aetest.Testcase):
  ```
  Which tells pyATS to run the ping test on devices `ios1`, and `ios2`.



#### Next Step: Execute your tests!
