## Step 3. Define your Genie Testbed

Before we get started, we must tell Genie which devices we are running our tests against. This is called a `testbed` file.

For more infromation on PyATS & Genie testbeds, you can refer to the [Topology Documentation](https://pubhub.devnetcloud.com/media/pyats/docs/topology/introduction.html)


1. Generate a testbed file for your simulation

```
[developer@devbox ~]$ cd ~/genie_learning_lab
[developer@devbox genie_learning_lab]$ virl generate pyats
```


2. Examine the testbed YAML file

```
[developer@devbox genie_learning_lab]$ cat default_testbed.yaml
```

The testbed file is a [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) (“Yet Another Markup Language”); it is a data serialization format that is designed to be both human-readable and machine-readable. YAML is indentation & white space sensitive. Its syntax maps directly to most common datastructures in Python, such dict, list, str etc.

Your testbed file contains definitions of various things in the environment such as routers, switches, links, external servers, or traffic generators.

As a example to illustrate the above, the NX-OSv router defintion for the newly launched testbed would look like this:

```
devices:

  nx-osv-1: <--- (hostname)
    alias: nx-osv-1
    os: nxos
    type: NX-OSv
    connections:
      defaults:
        class: unicon.Unicon
      console:
        ip: 10.10.20.160
        protocol: telnet
        port: 17003
    custom:
      abstraction:
        order: [os, type]
```

A more comprehensive testbed sample can be found
  <a href="https://pubhub.devnetcloud.com/media/pyats/docs/topology/schema.html#production-yaml-schema" target="_blank">
    here
  </a>
you should take a few minutes to review some of the additional options that can be configured for a given testbed.


3. [Optional] Install editor Vim for editing files

```
[developer@devbox genie_learning_lab]$ sudo yum install vim
```


4. The testbed YAML file that was generated above will need a few more edits before it can be used for Genie. Open up the testbed YAML file using Vim and make the changes outlined below

For device "nx-osv-1", set the `alias` key to be "uut".

```
devices:
  nx-osv-1:
    alias: uut     <--- (changed from 'nx-osv-1')
    os: nxos
    type: NX-OSv
```

For device "csr1000v-1", set the `alias` key to be "helper".

```
devices:
  csr1000v-1:
    alias: 'helper'  <--- (changed from 'csr1000v-1')
    os: iosxe
    type: CSR1000v
```

Genie will use the `alias` key to refer to devices of the testbed during test execution. This prevents the user from hard-coding the device hostnames everywhere in the script and also encourages reusability of the same script on another topology (where users can mark the devices as uut/helpers in the testbed YAML).


5. Examine sections `tacacs` and `passwords` in the testbed YAML file

```
[developer@devbox genie_learning_lab]$ more default_testbed.yaml
testbed:

  name: genie_learning_lab_default_4AsxiX

  tacacs:
      username: "%ENV{PYATS_USERNAME}"
  passwords:
      tacacs: "%ENV{PYATS_PASSWORD}"
      enable: "%ENV{PYATS_AUTH_PASS}"
      line: "%ENV{PYATS_PASSWORD}"
```

If a device has any username/password configured, Unicon will need to know what to pass through to the device when it receives a username or password prompt. Those values are set here.

Find the console IP address for each device within your testbed YAML file. Telnet to both devices in the testbed (using credentials cisco/cisco) to ensure they are up and running before proceeding to the next steps.


6. Set the device username and password

```
[developer@devbox genie_learning_lab]$ export PYATS_USERNAME="cisco"
[developer@devbox genie_learning_lab]$ export PYATS_PASSWORD="cisco"
[developer@devbox genie_learning_lab]$ export PYATS_AUTH_PASS="cisco"
```

Now that we've verified connectivity to both the devices using the credentials cisco/cisco, we can set the username and password in our environment variables. The testbed YAML file will be used by Genie to retrieve the IP addresses and the credentials when connecting to the device.


#### Next Step: Install Genie Packages
