# Step 1. Genie System Profiling

This module will introduce the reader to the concept of Genie System Profiling.

## Objectives

In this learning lab you are going to:

* Learn about the benefits of Genie System Profiling
* Execute Genie PTS

## Prerequisites

1. Python virtual environment
2. Completed lab [intro-to-pyats](https://github.com/kecorbin/pyats-labs/tree/master/labs/intro-to-pyats) 
3. Completed lab [boot-genie-virl](https://github.com/kecorbin/pyats-labs/tree/master/labs/)
4. VIRL testbed and testbed YAML file (/path/to/virl.yaml needed for examples)
5. Completed lab [intro-to-genie](https://github.com/kecorbin/pyats-labs/tree/master/labs/)

## Genie System Profiling

Genie PTS (or "Profile The System") is an operational state snapshot of a topology. Users can run Genie "PTS" on their network topology to learn and store the operational state of each devices after applying configuration, essentially creating a profile of the system.

Genie creates this profile by executing a series of commands per network feature (such as BGP, OSPF etc.). The commands are executed in parallel across all devices in a topology and the output is then parsed using Genie Libs Parsers. The parsed output of each network feature is then stored into a Python data structure that matches the feature's [Genie Feature Model](https://pubhub.devnetcloud.com/media/pyats-packages/docs/genie/genie_libs/#/models). The combination of the Python data structures for all the features profiled on the topology is known as the PTS operational snapshot.

Users can control exactly which network features to "learn" when executing PTS by specifying them at runtime via arguments to Genie PTS. By default, Genie learns all the features specified within the pts_datafile.yaml file. This file can be found under your python virtual environment ($VIRTUAL_ENV/genie_yamls/pts_datafile.yaml).

The Genie PTS operational state snapshot is an extremely useful feature and can then be used in a multitude of ways as outlined in the Use Cases section below.

For detailed documentation on Genie System Profiling, refer to the user Guide:
- [Genie Harness PTS](https://pubhub.devnetcloud.com/media/pyats-packages/docs/genie/harness/user/gettingstarted.html#pts)

## Genie PTS Use Cases

Genie PTS can be extremely useful for validating device configurational state before and after any actions are performed on the device that could potentially impact the configuration.

Prior to running the below use cases, the user can load the testbed with a stable image, valid configuration and run PTS. The user should then save this snapshot as a "golden" verified system profile.

1. Validate testbed unchanged state:
	- Load testbed with stable image and valid configuration
	- Create PTS snapshots at different points in time (example: every 6 hours, day, week)
	- Compare each snapshot to the "golden" previously verified snapshot to ensure testbed state has not changed over time

2. Validate a new image:
	- Load the testbed with a new image and previously validated configuration
	- Create PTS snapshot
	- Compare the newly generated PTS snapshot to the "golden" previously verified snapshot to ensure the new image yields the same results with the same configuration

3. Validate testbed operation state after actions on testbed:
	- Load testbed with stable image and valid configuration
	- Create PTS snapshot of the current operational state and save it locally after validating it against the "golden" verified snapshot
	- Perform potentially destructive actions (ex: TriggerReload)
	- Create PTS snapshot after the action and compare it to the operational state before the action

Follow through the next module to see the above mentioned use cases.

#### Next Step: Execute Genie PTS
